en/activities-and-challenges/dungeons.md, before:

# Dungeons

Dungeons in the game allow you to engage in combat for long periods without needing to interact directly, unlike battling enemies. They are also the main way to get recipes, which you need to craft the strongest items.

The game has various dungeons, each with different difficulty levels. As a dungeon's level increases, so does its difficulty, making it harder to succeed.

Participating in dungeons requires a significant investment of both time and currency to obtain the best items. As dungeon levels increase, the costs in both gold and time also go up.

----

#### Dungeon Difficulty

- Every dungeon has a **difficulty rating**. This number tells you how strong your character needs to be (in total combat stats) to enter and survive the dungeon.
- To enter a dungeon, your combat stats must be at least **70% of its difficulty**.  
  For example, if the dungeon **"Nexus"** has a difficulty of **1,500**, you'll need **at least 1,050 combat stats** to get in.
- After completing a dungeon, you’ll lose some health. The amount you lose depends on how your combat stats compare to the dungeon’s difficulty.
- If your stats are more than 30% higher than the dungeon's difficulty, you will gain a **magic find bonus**. The magic find bonuses scales upwards the further your stats are above the dungeon's difficulty.

##### In simple terms, dungeon difficulty affects:
- **Entry** – You can’t enter if your stats are too low
- **Health loss** – The closer your stats are to the dungeon’s difficulty, the less health you’ll lose
- **Magic Find bonus** – If your stats are much higher than the dungeon’s difficulty, you’ll gain bonus magic find.

##### Combat Stats

The following stats are used to determine your combat stats: [Attack Power](/wiki/character/stats?same_window=true), [Protection](/wiki/character/stats?same_window=true),  [Agility](/wiki/character/stats?same_window=true), and [Accuracy](/wiki/character/stats?same_window=true).

>!!banner Increase your combat stats by improving your character's primary stats (such as Strength), using equipment, consuming potions, and equipping a pet.

##### Dungeon Difficulty Example 

>!banner The range is within **30%** of the difficulty. A 30% reduction of a dungeon with 100 difficulty brings it down to 70. A 30% increase raises it to 130.

| Your Combat Stats | Difficulty | Result             |
|-------------------|--------------------------------|  ---- |
| Combat stats < 70 | 100 | Cannot enter the dungeon       |
| Combat stats = 70 |  100 | You lose all health            |
| Combat stats = 100 |  100 | You lose 50% health            |
| Combat stats = 130 | 100 | You lose minimal health        |
| Combat stats > 130 | 100 | You gain a bonus to Magic Find |

----

#### Completing Dungeons

- Dungeons can be completed by running them a set number of times. 
- Once a dungeon is completed, you’ll earn a permanent magic find bonus - for example, **+1%** per dungeon. 
- This bonus stacks across all completed dungeons. So if you fully complete 15 different dungeons, you’ll gain a total of **+15%** permanent magic find.

----

#### Chaining Dungeons
Dungeons can be chained up until the maximum idle time that your character can handle. However, you can only chain dungeons that you are able to complete with relative ease according to your stats against the dungeons difficulty.

For instance, if your character can successfully complete a dungeon run at the cost of 60% HP, then you will be unable to chain that dungeon because doing the dungeon twice in a row would result in your character being defeated at 120% HP.

>!banner Improve your characters stats to be able to chain dungeons.

----

#### Dungeon Shop

- Every dungeon beyond level 70 gets dungeon shards.
- Dungeon shards can be exchanged in the vendor for: Dragon Soul Stones, Essence Crystals, and Potions.
- Dungeon shards are obtained every time you complete a dungeon.

---- 

#### List of Dungeons

| Dungeon                  | Level Required | Location | Cost   | Time To Complete |
|--------------------------|----------------| -------- |--------|------------------| 
| __Millstone Mines__      | Lv. 3          | Bluebell Hollow | 300    | 2h               | 
| __Vineyard Labyrinth__   | Lv. 10         | Bluebell Hollow | 1,200  | 2h 3m 20s        |
| __Verdant Veil__         | Lv. 25         | Whispering Woods | 2,400  | 2h 6m 40s        | 
| __Sylvan Sanctum__       | Lv. 40         | Whispering Woods | 3,600  | 2h 10m           |
| __Whispering Catacombs__ | Lv. 60         | Whispering Woods | 4,800  | 2h 13m 20s       |
| __Cursed Asylum__        | Lv. 62         | Eldoria | 6,000  | 2hr 15m 20s      |
| __Forgotten Archives__   | Lv. 65         | Eldoria | 9,000  | 2h 20m           |
| __Crystal Forge__        | Lv. 70         | Crystal Caverns | 15,000 | 2h 23m 20s       |
| __Frostbite Spire__      | Lv. 74         | Skyreach Peak | 18,000 | 2h 26m 40s       |
| __Zenith's Sanctum__     | Lv. 76         | Skyreach Peak | 21,000 | 2h 30m           |
| __Mirage Citadel__       | Lv. 78         | Enchanted Oasis | 24,000 | 2h 33m 20s       |
| __Eden's Embrace__       | Lv. 82         | Floating Gardens of Aetheria | 27,000 | 2h 36m 40s       |
| __Arboreal Labyrinth__   | Lv. 84         | Floating Gardens of Aetheria | 30,000 | 2h 40m           |
| __Bloodmoon Manor__      | Lv. 86         | Celestial Observatory | 33,000 | 2h 43m 20s       |
| __Ruins of Old Ranhor__  | Lv. 88         | Isle of Whispers | 36,000 | 2h 46m 40s       |
| __Volcanic Depths__      | Lv. 90         | Isle of Whispers | 39,000 | 2h 50m           |
| __Celestial Enclave__    | Lv. 92         | The Citadel | 42,000 | 3h               |
| __The Nexus__            | Lv. 95         | The Citadel | 45,000 | 1h               |
| __Winter Wonderland__    | Lv. 25         | Yulewood Glades | 1,500  | 1h               |
| __Springtide Keep__      | Lv. 25         | Springtide Fair  | 1,500  | 1h               |
| __Silverleaf Enclave__   | Lv. 25         | Moonlit Valley | 1,500  | 1h               |
| __Pumpkin Hollow__       | Lv. 25         | Wraithwood Forest | 1,500  | 1h               |
| __Wickedroot Patch__     | Lv. 50         | YWraithwood Forest | 4,000  | 1h               |
| __Snowbound Forest__     | Lv. 50         | Yulewood Glades | 4,000  | 1h               |
| __Garden of Grief__      | Lv. 50         | Springtide Fair | 4,000  | 1h               |
| __Stone Hollow__         | Lv. 50         | Moonlit Valley | 4,000  | 1h               |

Commit message:

fix: updated all places using vendor to merchants, adjusted descriptions

en/activities-and-challenges/dungeons.md, after:

# Dungeons

Dungeons in the game allow you to engage in combat for long periods without needing to interact directly, unlike battling enemies. They are also the main way to get recipes, which you need to craft the strongest items.

The game has various dungeons, each with different difficulty levels. As a dungeon's level increases, so does its difficulty, making it harder to succeed.

Participating in dungeons requires a significant investment of both time and currency to obtain the best items. As dungeon levels increase, the costs in both gold and time also go up.

----

#### Dungeon Difficulty

- Every dungeon has a **difficulty rating**. This number tells you how strong your character needs to be (in total combat stats) to enter and survive the dungeon.
- To enter a dungeon, your combat stats must be at least **70% of its difficulty**.  
  For example, if the dungeon **"Nexus"** has a difficulty of **1,500**, you'll need **at least 1,050 combat stats** to get in.
- After completing a dungeon, you’ll lose some health. The amount you lose depends on how your combat stats compare to the dungeon’s difficulty.
- If your stats are more than 30% higher than the dungeon's difficulty, you will gain a **magic find bonus**. The magic find bonuses scales upwards the further your stats are above the dungeon's difficulty.

##### In simple terms, dungeon difficulty affects:
- **Entry** – You can’t enter if your stats are too low
- **Health loss** – The closer your stats are to the dungeon’s difficulty, the less health you’ll lose
- **Magic Find bonus** – If your stats are much higher than the dungeon’s difficulty, you’ll gain bonus magic find.

##### Combat Stats

The following stats are used to determine your combat stats: [Attack Power](/wiki/character/stats?same_window=true), [Protection](/wiki/character/stats?same_window=true),  [Agility](/wiki/character/stats?same_window=true), and [Accuracy](/wiki/character/stats?same_window=true).

>!!banner Increase your combat stats by improving your character's primary stats (such as Strength), using equipment, consuming potions, and equipping a pet.

##### Dungeon Difficulty Example 

>!banner The range is within **30%** of the difficulty. A 30% reduction of a dungeon with 100 difficulty brings it down to 70. A 30% increase raises it to 130.

| Your Combat Stats | Difficulty | Result             |
|-------------------|--------------------------------|  ---- |
| Combat stats < 70 | 100 | Cannot enter the dungeon       |
| Combat stats = 70 |  100 | You lose all health            |
| Combat stats = 100 |  100 | You lose 50% health            |
| Combat stats = 130 | 100 | You lose minimal health        |
| Combat stats > 130 | 100 | You gain a bonus to Magic Find |

----

#### Completing Dungeons

- Dungeons can be completed by running them a set number of times. 
- Once a dungeon is completed, you’ll earn a permanent magic find bonus - for example, **+1%** per dungeon. 
- This bonus stacks across all completed dungeons. So if you fully complete 15 different dungeons, you’ll gain a total of **+15%** permanent magic find.

----

#### Chaining Dungeons
Dungeons can be chained up until the maximum idle time that your character can handle. However, you can only chain dungeons that you are able to complete with relative ease according to your stats against the dungeons difficulty.

For instance, if your character can successfully complete a dungeon run at the cost of 60% HP, then you will be unable to chain that dungeon because doing the dungeon twice in a row would result in your character being defeated at 120% HP.

>!banner Improve your characters stats to be able to chain dungeons.

----

#### Dungeon shards

- Every dungeon beyond level 70 gets dungeon shards.
- Dungeon shards can be exchanged in the [Celestial Exchange](/wiki/economy-and-trading/merchants?same_window=true) for: Dragon Soul Stones, Essence Crystals, Potions and even Tokens. 
- Shards also can be exchanged in the [Legacy Vault](/wiki/economy-and-trading/merchants?same_window=true) to buy rewards from previous campaigns.
- Dungeon shards are obtained every time you complete a dungeon.

---- 

#### List of Dungeons

| Dungeon                  | Level Required | Location | Cost   | Time To Complete |
|--------------------------|----------------| -------- |--------|------------------| 
| __Millstone Mines__      | Lv. 3          | Bluebell Hollow | 300    | 2h               | 
| __Vineyard Labyrinth__   | Lv. 10         | Bluebell Hollow | 1,200  | 2h 3m 20s        |
| __Verdant Veil__         | Lv. 25         | Whispering Woods | 2,400  | 2h 6m 40s        | 
| __Sylvan Sanctum__       | Lv. 40         | Whispering Woods | 3,600  | 2h 10m           |
| __Whispering Catacombs__ | Lv. 60         | Whispering Woods | 4,800  | 2h 13m 20s       |
| __Cursed Asylum__        | Lv. 62         | Eldoria | 6,000  | 2hr 15m 20s      |
| __Forgotten Archives__   | Lv. 65         | Eldoria | 9,000  | 2h 20m           |
| __Crystal Forge__        | Lv. 70         | Crystal Caverns | 15,000 | 2h 23m 20s       |
| __Frostbite Spire__      | Lv. 74         | Skyreach Peak | 18,000 | 2h 26m 40s       |
| __Zenith's Sanctum__     | Lv. 76         | Skyreach Peak | 21,000 | 2h 30m           |
| __Mirage Citadel__       | Lv. 78         | Enchanted Oasis | 24,000 | 2h 33m 20s       |
| __Eden's Embrace__       | Lv. 82         | Floating Gardens of Aetheria | 27,000 | 2h 36m 40s       |
| __Arboreal Labyrinth__   | Lv. 84         | Floating Gardens of Aetheria | 30,000 | 2h 40m           |
| __Bloodmoon Manor__      | Lv. 86         | Celestial Observatory | 33,000 | 2h 43m 20s       |
| __Ruins of Old Ranhor__  | Lv. 88         | Isle of Whispers | 36,000 | 2h 46m 40s       |
| __Volcanic Depths__      | Lv. 90         | Isle of Whispers | 39,000 | 2h 50m           |
| __Celestial Enclave__    | Lv. 92         | The Citadel | 42,000 | 3h               |
| __The Nexus__            | Lv. 95         | The Citadel | 45,000 | 1h               |
| __Winter Wonderland__    | Lv. 25         | Yulewood Glades | 1,500  | 1h               |
| __Springtide Keep__      | Lv. 25         | Springtide Fair  | 1,500  | 1h               |
| __Silverleaf Enclave__   | Lv. 25         | Moonlit Valley | 1,500  | 1h               |
| __Pumpkin Hollow__       | Lv. 25         | Wraithwood Forest | 1,500  | 1h               |
| __Wickedroot Patch__     | Lv. 50         | YWraithwood Forest | 4,000  | 1h               |
| __Snowbound Forest__     | Lv. 50         | Yulewood Glades | 4,000  | 1h               |
| __Garden of Grief__      | Lv. 50         | Springtide Fair | 4,000  | 1h               |
| __Stone Hollow__         | Lv. 50         | Moonlit Valley | 4,000  | 1h               |
